Main idea: In this paper Chowdhury et al. explore the use of graph-based features for clustering in computer networks to detect botnets. As much prior literature has focused on flow-based or rule-based detection, the authors suggest using clustering to first identify clusters of suspicious nodes. The authors are using a self-organizing map (SOM) for dimensionality reduction and clustering by assigning each node to a different cluster according to the output of the SOM. The features used for clustering are node in-degree, out-degree, in-degree weight (i.e. how many packets are received), out-degree weight (i.e. number of outgoing packets), clustering coefficient, node betweenness, and eigenvector centrality. Finally they are classifying nodes in each cluster (except the largest as it is unlikely to contain bots) starting from the smallest cluster using their own bot-search algorithm which only requires examination of few nodes for classification.
Chowdhury et al. show that their approach performs better than SVM classification on the CTU-13 dataset (a dataset of botnet traffic) using the same graph features. 

Use for our project: Although the approach presented in the paper operates on an entirely different set of data, it is very similar to our goal in its nature. The authors want to identify a set of bad actors in a network given interactions between devices and given the network structure. As we are attempting to classify users in a social network according to the structure and topology of the social graph, we aim to use a set of graph-based features, similar to the features used in the paper, to cluster groups of users which we may subsequently classify jointly.

Shortcomings: Calculating all given graph features for all nodes in the graph will not scale very well. For the CTU-13 dataset used by the authors the computation took 30 hours on a supercomputer cluster. This is not an acceptable amount of processing power and time to detect social bots in social networks in (near) real-time in order to prevent interactions with real users. However, as the CTU-13 dataset contains much data and information that is not contained or necessary for an application on social graphs, some of the ideas from these paper may still viable in our use-case. Further experimentation is required.
